New rules priorities (#196)
AdguardTeam/KnowledgeBase: docs/general/ad-filtering/create-own-filters.md

@@||example.org^$important
```

```

> ! if a document-level exception rule is applied to the document, the `$important` modifier will be ignored;

Author: да, по новой схеме `$important` выше приоритетом, чем любое исключение

> ! if a document-level exception rule is applied to the document, the `$important` modifier will be ignored;

Reviewer: Окей, но это прям важное изменение.

@ngorskikh @sxgunchenko обратите внимание.

> ! if a document-level exception rule is applied to the document, the `$important` modifier will be ignored;

Reviewer 2: @ameshkov Получается, что новая схема обделила "document-level exception" отдельным статусом, и `@@||example.org^$elemhide,content` будет приоритетнее `@@||example.org^$document` ? :harold:

> ! if a document-level exception rule is applied to the document, the `$important` modifier will be ignored;

Reviewer 3: > @ameshkov Получается, что новая схема обделила "document-level exception" отдельным статусом, и `@@||example.org^$elemhide,content` будет приоритетнее `@@||example.org^$document` ? :harold:

не, там же вот так должно быть для document

`@@||example.org^$document` - without additional modifiers is an alias for
`@@|||example.com^$elemhide,content,jsinject,urlblock,extension`

> ! if a document-level exception rule is applied to the document, the `$important` modifier will be ignored;

Reviewer 2: А, вижу, что в описании $document эксклужена указано, что: 

It is equivalent to using `$elemhide`, `$content`, `$urlblock`, `$jsinject`, `$extension` modifiers simultaneously.

Но в списке приоритетов и примеров этот случай не отражен

* [`$content`](#content-modifier)
* [`$elemhide`](#elemhide-modifier)
* [`$extension`](#extension-modifier)
* [`$genericblock`](#genericblock-modifier)
* [`$generichide`](#generichide-modifier)
* [`$jsinject`](#jsinject-modifier)
* [`$specifichide`](#specifichide-modifier)
* [`$stealth`](#stealth-modifier)
* [`$urlblock`](#urlblock-modifier)
* [Generic rules](#exception-modifiers-generic-rules)
  * [`$genericblock`](#genericblock-modifier)

>   * [`$generichide`](#generichide-modifier)

Reviewer 4: list items are moved up but their paragraphs are not moved

Author: @slavaleleka I don't understand what's wrong here?

Author: @sxgunchenko asked to put all the modifiers in a sorted order

Reviewer 4: so now the list is sorted but the anchor to `#exception-modifiers-generic-rules` section (common info for $genericblock and $generichide) is missed

Author: @slavaleleka now i see that i changed it in the separated section, got you, thanks

Author: fixed

#### **`$urlblock`** {#urlblock-modifier}

> Disables blocking of all requests sent from the pages matching the rule and sisables all [`$cookie`](#cookie-modifier) rules.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Disables blocking of all requests sent from the pages matching the rule and disables all [`$cookie`](#cookie-modifier) rules.
```

#### **`$all`** {#all-modifier}

> `$all` modifier is made of [all content-types modifiers](#content-type-modifiers) and [`$popup`](#popup-modifier). E.g. rule `||example.org^$all` is converting into rule:

Author: @el-termikael but what is meant here is that all available content types will be listed.

* `$cookie=/__utm[a-z]/` blocks Google Analytics cookies everywhere
* `||facebook.com^$third-party,cookie=c_user` prevents Facebook from tracking you even if you are logged in

> There are two ways to disable `$cookie` rules: first, default way, is to use exception with `@@` mark - `@@||example.org^$cookie`. Another way is to use `$urlblock` exception (which is also contained in the exception alias `$document` - `$elemhide,jsinject,content,urlblock,extension`)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
There are two ways to disable the `$cookie` rules. The first and default way is to use the exception with the `@@` tag — `@@||example.org^$cookie`. The other way is to use the `$urlblock` exception (which is also included in the `$document` exception alias — `$elemhide,jsinject,content,urlblock,extension`).
```

* `$cookie=/__utm[a-z]/` blocks Google Analytics cookies everywhere
* `||facebook.com^$third-party,cookie=c_user` prevents Facebook from tracking you even if you are logged in

> There are two ways to disable `$cookie` rules: first, default way, is to use exception with `@@` mark - `@@||example.org^$cookie`. Another way is to use `$urlblock` exception (which is also contained in the exception alias `$document` - `$elemhide,jsinject,content,urlblock,extension`)

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure that first way can be called "default way". comparing to the second one, maybe "obvious" or "direct"?

* `$cookie=/__utm[a-z]/` blocks Google Analytics cookies everywhere
* `||facebook.com^$third-party,cookie=c_user` prevents Facebook from tracking you even if you are logged in

> `$cookie` rules are not affected by regular exception rules (`@@`) unless it is a `$urlblock` exception (which is contained in the exception alias `$document` - `$elemhide,jsinject,content,urlblock,extension`). In order to disable a `$cookie` rule, the exception rule should also have a `$cookie` modifier or a `$urlblock` modifier. How it works:

Reviewer 7: `urlblock` is mentioned 2 times, I'd propose to paraphrase it

```suggestion
`$cookie` rules are not affected by regular exception rules (`@@`) unless it is a `$urlblock` exception (which is also contained in the exception alias `$document` - `$elemhide,jsinject,content,urlblock,extension`). Another way to disable a `$cookie` rule is the exception `$cookie` rule. How it works:
```

* `$cookie=/__utm[a-z]/` blocks Google Analytics cookies everywhere
* `||facebook.com^$third-party,cookie=c_user` prevents Facebook from tracking you even if you are logged in

> `$cookie` rules are not affected by regular exception rules (`@@`) unless it is a `$urlblock` exception (which is also contained in the exception alias `$document` - `$elemhide,jsinject,content,urlblock,extension`). Another way to disable a `$cookie` rule is the exception `$cookie` rule. How it works:

Reviewer 6: Another way to disable a `$cookie` rule is the exception `$cookie` rule.
что тут имелось в виду?

Author: https://github.com/AdguardTeam/KnowledgeBase/pull/196#discussion_r1222764693
это @sxgunchenko принёс (немного пострелочничать захотелось)

Reviewer 7: В этом абзаце надо сказать следующее: $куки правила не отменяются обычными исключениями, если только это не $урлблок (или $документ, который его неявно включает). Кроме того, блокирующие $куки правила отменяются $куки-исключениями. Вот, что я пытался предложить. :harold:

Author: @el-termikael чуть подправил, подредактируй пожалуйста

Author: улучшено с помощью chatgpt

> The value of the `$redirect` modifier must be the name of the resource that will be used for redirection.

> > `$redirect` rules' priority is higher than the regular basic blocking rules' priority and higher than exception rules. This means that if there is a basic blocking rule or allowlist rule with `@@` mark, `$redirect` rule will prevail over it. If rule with the `$important` modifier matching the same URL, it will disable redirecting as well (unless the `$redirect` rule is also marked as `$important`).

Author: поправил

> **Compatibility with different versions of AdGuard**
>
> Rules with `$redirect` modifier are not supported by AdGuard Content Blocker, AdGuard for iOS and Safari.

> > `$redirect` in uBlock Origin supports specifying priority, e.g. `$redirect=noopjs:42`. AdGuard does not support it and instead just discards the priority postfix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

> `$redirect` in uBlock Origin supports specifying priority, e.g. `$redirect=noopjs:42`. AdGuard does not support it and instead just discards the priority postfix.
```

>
> 3. `$removeheader` rules are not compatible with any other modifiers except `$domain`, `$third-party`, `$app`, `$important`, `$match-case`, and [content type modifiers](#content-type-modifiers), e.g. `$script`, `$stylesheet`, etc. The rules which have any other modifiers are considered invalid and will be discarded.

> **Note**
>

> > When there are two rules: a blocking rule with `$header` - `||example.com^$header=value` and a modifying rule with `$removeheader` - `||example.com^$removeheader=value`, the engine will choose the blocking rule because the modifier `$header` adds 1 to the weight of the rule. For more information, go to [rules priorities](#rule-priorities).

Reviewer 7: > the engine will choose the blocking rule because the modifier `$header` adds 1 to the weight of the rule

для корлибсов это некорректно, в них эти правила друг от друга не зависят

Author: удалил этот фрагмент

>
> `$removeparam` rules can also be disabled by `$document` and `$urlblock` exception rules. But basic exception rules without modifiers do not do that. For example, `@@||example.com^` will not disable `$removeparam=p` for requests to **example.com**, but `@@||example.com^$urlblock` will.

> **Note**
>

> > Simultaneous blocking and `$removeparam`, for example `*&p1=param` and `*$removeparam=p1`.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
> Simultaneous blocking and `$removeparam` rules, for example `*&p1=param` and `*$removeparam=p1`.
```

>
> Rules with `$mp4` modifier are not supported by AdGuard Content Blocker, AdGuard for iOS and Safari.

### Rule priorities {#rule-priorities}
Each rule has its own priority, which is necessary when several rules match the request and the filtering system needs to select one of them.

> Priority is measured by a natural integer. The higher the priority of a rule, the higher its priority value.

Reviewer 8: "natural integer" is redundant :) Moreover, "natural" may or may not include zero depending on who you ask, so "positive integer" is probably a better wording.

Author: @ngorskikh hmm, I asked google and it said that a natural number means not including zero, as I learned in school. where can a natural number include zero?

I'm asking out of interest, not for the sake of argument.

I will replace it with a positive integer in the documentation as being more easily understandable.

The base priority weight of any rule is 1. If the priority is a floating point number, it will be rounded to the **nearest whole number**.

> **Compatibility with different versions of AdGuard**
>
> Numerical priorities for rules are available in tsurlfilter since version `v2.1.0`.

#### 1. Basic modifiers, the presence of each adds 1 to the priority: {#priority-category-1}
 * [`$third-party`](#third-party-modifier),
 * [`$match-case`](#match-case-modifier),
 * [`$to`](#to-modifier),
 * [`$method`](#method-modifier),
 * [`$denyallow`](#denyallow-modifier),
 * [`$header`](#header-modifier),
 * [`$dnsrewrite`](#dnsrewrite-modifier),

>  * [`$app`](#app-modifier) with forbidden applications using `~`,

Reviewer 8: It's not very clear that this only includes those modifiers which have forbidden application names in their value. And what if modifier value includes both "forbidden" and "allowed" application names?

Same fo the `$domain` modifier.

Author: then add only `1` for all those banned, regardless of their number.
and add `100 + 100/number_of_applications`.

 * [`$domain`](#domain-modifier) with forbidden domains using `~`,

>  * banned content-types with `~`.

Reviewer 8: Following the same logic as for the "forbidden" domain names, shouldn't we only add `1` if any of the `~somecontenttype` modifiers are present, and disregard the actual number of such modifiers?

Reviewer 7: Unlike sets of domains and applications, the set of content type has limited and known cardinality. So, I propose to calculate the priority of a rule with negated content-types this way: `1000 * (N - M)`, where `1000` is the priority of a single content-type modifier, `N` is the number of the available content-type modifiers, `M` is the number of the negated ones in a rule.

For example: `$~image,~script` gives `1000 * (12 - 2) = 10000`, [12](https://adguardteam.github.io/KnowledgeBase/general/ad-filtering/create-own-filters/#content-type-modifiers) (or 14 if we count the deprecated ones) is the number of available content-type modifier at the moment.

Author: wait for @ameshkov

Reviewer: We would like to avoid using the number of available enum members.

> For forbidden `$domain` and content-type, we add 1 for the presence of the modifier itself disregarding the number of forbidden domains or content-types, because the scope of the rule is infinitely large in the limit anyway, in other words, by banning several domains and content-types, we only *insignificantly* narrowed the scope of the rule.

Reviewer 6: > For forbidden `$domain` and content-type, we add 1 for the presence of the modifier itself disregarding the number of forbidden domains or content-types
we add 1 what?

because the scope of the rule is infinitely large in the limit anyway —> because the scope of the rule is infinitely large anyway

, in other words, by banning several domains and content-types, we only *insignificantly* narrowed the scope of the rule. — consider making it a separate sentence

> #### 2. Defined content types, $popup, special exceptions: {#priority-category-2}

Reviewer 6: content-type was written with a hyphen above

Reviewer 6: content-type in plural should content-type modifiers

* [`$document`](#document-modifier),
* [`$font`](#font-modifier),
* [`$image`](#image-modifier),
* [`$media`](#media-modifier),
* [`$object`](#object-modifier),
* [`$other`](#other-modifier),
* [`$ping`](#ping-modifier),
* [`$script`](#script-modifier),
* [`$stylesheet`](#stylesheet-modifier),
* [`$subdocument`](#subdocument-modifier),
* [`$websocket`](#websocket-modifier),
* [`$xmlhttprequest`](#xmlhttprequest-modifier);

This also includes rules that implicitly add the modifier `$document`:
* [`$popup`](#popup-modifier);

or special exceptions that implicitly add `$document,subdocument`:
* [`$content`](#content-modifier),
* [`$elemhide`](#elemhide-modifier),
* [`$extension`](#extension-modifier),
* [`$jsinject`](#jsinject-modifier),
* [`$specifichide`](#specifichide-modifier),
* [`$urlblock`](#urlblock-modifier),
* [`$genericblock`](#genericblock-modifier),
* [`$generichide`](#generichide-modifier);

> Specified content-types add `50 + 50 / number_of_forbidden_content_types`, for example:

Reviewer 3: number_of_forbidden_content_types -> number_of_blocked_content_types

> Specified content-types add `50 + 50 / number_of_forbidden_content_types`, for example:

Reviewer 7: Ah, I see, `forbidden` = `blocked by the rule`. But it is still not quite correct since a rule may be an exception.

> Specified content-types add `50 + 50 / number_of_forbidden_content_types`, for example:

Reviewer 3: then just number_of_content_types

> Specified content-types add `50 + 50 / number_of_forbidden_content_types`, for example:

Reviewer 8: It's also not clear if _each_ of the content-type modifiers adds `50 + 50/N`, or if "the presence of any content-type modifiers adds (50 + 50/N)", where N is the number of modifiers present.

> Specified content-types add `50 + 50 / number_of_forbidden_content_types`, for example:

Author: yes, thanks, `number_of_content_types` would be better

not every, this formula is used for any number of content types

I'll think of a way to describe it more explicitly

`||example.com^$image,script` will add `50 + 50 / 2 = 50 + 25 = 75` to the total weight of the rule. The `$popup` also belongs to this category, because it implicitly adds the modifier `$document`. Similarly, specific exceptions add `$document,subdocument`.

#### 3. $domain or $app with allowed domains or applications: {#priority-category-3}

> Specified domains through `$domain` and specified applications through `$app` add `101 + 100 / number_domains (or number_applications)`, for example:

Reviewer 8: Not clear what to do if both `$domain` and `$app` modifiers are present. Do we add `101 + 100/(N +M)` (where N and M are the number of included app names and domains respectively), or do we add `202 + 100/N + 100/M`?

`||example.com^$domain=example.com|example.org|example.net` will add `101 + 100 / 3 = 134.3 = 134` or
`||example.com^$app=org.example.app1|org.example.app2` will add `101 + 100 / 2 = 151`.

#### 4. Specific exceptions: {#priority-category-4}
* [`$content`](#content-modifier),
* [`$elemhide`](#elemhide-modifier),
* [`$extension`](#extension-modifier),
* [`$jsinject`](#jsinject-modifier),
* [`$specifichide`](#specifichide-modifier),
* [`$urlblock`](#urlblock-modifier),
* [`$genericblock`](#genericblock-modifier),
* [`$generichide`](#generichide-modifier),
* [`$extension`](#extension-modifier);

> Each of which adds `10^3` to the priority.

Reviewer 8: Looks weird to use scientific notation for such a common number as `1000`. It's not too small, nor too big to write out in decimal :)

As well as

> - exception with a only one modifier (**without any other modifiers**) - [`$document`](#document-modifier) (because it's an alias for `$elemhide,content,jsinject,urlblock,extension,popup`)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- exception with only one modifier (**without any other modifiers**) — [`$document`](#document-modifier) (because it's an alias for `$elemhide,content,jsinject,urlblock,extension,popup`)
```

> - exception with a only one modifier (**without any other modifiers**) - [`$document`](#document-modifier) (because it's an alias for `$elemhide,content,jsinject,urlblock,extension,popup`)

Reviewer 8: Unclear: does `$document` add 1000 (since it is a single explicitly stated modifier) or 6000 (since it is a shorthand for `$elemhide,content,jsinject,urlblock,extension,popup`), or 7000 (since it is both a shorthand for 6 other modifiers, and a modifier in and of itself)?

Author: added this

> In addition, each of the exceptions implicitly adds the two allowed content types `$document,subdocument`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In addition, each of the exceptions implicitly adds the two allowed content-type modifiers `$document,subdocument`.
```

> In addition, each of the exceptions implicitly adds the two allowed content types `$document,subdocument`.

Reviewer 8: AFAIK the aforementioned exception modifiers imply `$document,subdocument` only when there are no explicit content-type modifiers on the rule, or did this change?

Author: I don't know where the truth is.
@ameshkov can you clarify this point?

Author: I think it works like this: `document` and `subdocument` will be added by default, and the rule can also contain other content types, why not.

To calculate priority, modifiers have been divided into several groups. They are arranged in order of priority from lowest to highest. The more a modifier narrows the scope of a rule, the more priority it adds to the total weight of the rule or the more a rule covers requests, the lower its priority. Note that there are modifiers where setting one parameter has a higher priority than setting two or more, for example, for `$domain=example.com|example.org`, because a rule with two domains has a smaller, infinitesimal, effective area, but still larger than a rule with one resolved domain.

The base priority weight of any rule is 1. If the priority is a floating point number, it will be **rounded up** to the smaller integer greater than or equal to the calculated weight.

> **Compatibility with different versions of AdGuard**
>
> Numerical priorities for rules are available in tsurlfilter since version `v2.1.0`.

#### 1. Basic modifiers, the presence of each adds 1 to the priority: {#priority-category-1}

[//]: # (Please keep them sorted)

 * [`$app`](#app-modifier) with forbidden applications using `~`,
 * [`$denyallow`](#denyallow-modifier),
 * [`$dnsrewrite`](#dnsrewrite-modifier),

>  * [`$domain`](#domain-modifier) with forbidden domains using `~`,

Reviewer 8: I've discovered while implementing this spec that we also support "any-TLD" and "regex" forms in the list of enabled/disabled domains. What to do about those? Does a regex (`/example\.(org|net|com)/`) or a pattern (`example.*`) count as a single domain for the purpose of priority?

Author: wait for @ameshkov

Reviewer: > Does a regex (/example\.(org|net|com)/) or a pattern (example.*) count as a single domain for the purpose of priority?

Let's not take them into account for the sake of simplicity.

 * [`$header`](#header-modifier),
 * [`$match-case`](#match-case-modifier),
 * [`$method`](#method-modifier),

>  * [`$third-party`](#third-party-modifier),

Author: @ngorskikh 
in the extension, `$first-party` is just an alias for `$~third-party`, is this wrong?

>  * [`$third-party`](#third-party-modifier),

Reviewer 7: Actually, in CoreLibs it is the alias as well

>  * [`$third-party`](#third-party-modifier),

Author: in extension we have:
`$first-party` = `$~third-party`
`$~first-party` = `$third-party`
as well as:
`$~third-party` = `$~third-party`
`$third-party` = `$third-party`
Link - https://bit.adguard.com/projects/ADGUARD-FILTERS/repos/tsurlfilter/browse/packages/tsurlfilter/src/rules/network-rule.ts#1047

It should be noted that the modifier `$first-party` does not exist in the knowledge base

>  * [`$third-party`](#third-party-modifier),

Reviewer: It makes sense to list aliases here as well

>  * [`$to`](#to-modifier),

Reviewer 8: Shouldn't included/excluded domains matter for `$to`, too? 🤔

Author: for `$to` it works like `$denyallow`

Reviewer 8: But `$to` is not equivalent to `$denyallow`: with `$to` the scope of the rule can be limited to a small set of domains (much like with `$domain` or `$from`), which is why I ask if we should apply the same wegiht calculation as for `$domain`. 

And in the case of a `$method` modifier, the situation is similar to content-types, so shouldn't it be treated the same?

Author: for `$method` i think it should works like for allowed/restricted content-types
wait for @ameshkov thoughts

Reviewer: The point of `$to` is often used to actually extend the rule scope, i.e. to do something like that: `/path$to=example.org|example.com`, this is basically a replacement for a regular expression like this: `/(example.org|example.com)\/path/`

Regarding `$method`, I don't have a particular preference here, either way is okay.

Author: @ameshkov approved that `$method` can be evaluated as allowed/restricted content-types

* [`$specifichide`](#specifichide-modifier),
* [`$urlblock`](#urlblock-modifier),
* [`$genericblock`](#genericblock-modifier),
* [`$generichide`](#generichide-modifier);

Each of which adds `10^3` to the priority.

As well as
- exception with a only one modifier (**without any other modifiers**) - [`$document`](#document-modifier) (because it's an alias for `$elemhide,content,jsinject,urlblock,extension`)

In addition, each of the exceptions implicitly adds the two allowed content-type modifiers `$document,subdocument`.

#### 5. Allowlist rule {#priority-category-5}

Modifier `@@` adds `10^4` to rule priority.

#### 6. $redirect rules {#priority-category-6}

The modifier [`$redirect`](#redirect-modifier) adds `10^5` to rule priority.
Modifier [`$redirect-rule`](#redirect-rule-modifier) adds `10^5 + 1` to rule priority
The `$redirect-rule` in the presence of a blocking rule is a higher priority than a normal `$redirect`.

#### 7. important rules {#priority-category-7}

Modifier [`$important`](#important-modifier) adds `10^6` to rule priority.

#### Rules for which there is no priority count {#priority-category-extra}

[//]: # (Please keep them sorted)

> Rules that do not override blocking, but do additional post- or pre-processing of requests:

Reviewer 7: I guess it's better to give here a reference to [the advanced modifiers](https://github.com/AdguardTeam/KnowledgeBase/blob/master/docs/general/ad-filtering/create-own-filters.md#advanced-capabilities) section since all of them don't participate in the priority counting, except for `$all` (which should be mentioned)

Author: @sxgunchenko `$redirect` and `$redirect-rules` participate

Reviewer 7: Hm... OK, we can mention that those 3 are handled specially. Still, most of them are not. :)

Author: now `$redirect` also added its own weight

Reviewer 7: Yeah, but my point is that it's easy to forget to update the list here introducing a new advanced modifier. That is not a rare case and it is highly likely that the modifier won't participate in the priority counting.

Author: @sxgunchenko oh, okay, thanks for the clarification. it seems more correct from this point of view

Priority is measured by a positive integer. The higher the priority of a rule, the higher its priority value.
In the case of a conflict between two rules with the same priority value, it is unspecified which one of them will be chosen.

#### Priority computation

To calculate priority, modifiers have been divided into several groups. They are arranged in order of priority from lowest to highest. The more a modifier narrows the scope of a rule, the more priority it adds to the total weight of the rule or the more a rule covers requests, the lower its priority. Note that there are modifiers where setting one parameter has a higher priority than setting two or more, for example, for `$domain=example.com|example.org`, because a rule with two domains has a smaller, infinitesimal, effective area, but still larger than a rule with one resolved domain.

The base priority weight of any rule is 1. If the calculated priority is a floating-point number, it will be **rounded up** to the smallest integer greater than or equal to the calculated weight.

> **Compatibility with different versions of AdGuard**
>

> > The calculation of numerical priorities for rules is effective in `tsurlfilter` since `v2.1.0`.

Reviewer: @ngorskikh какую версию CoreLibs сюда вписать?

Также нам надо это на самый верх секции уносить. Этот контент вообще релевантен только новым версиям.

```
> **Compatibility with different versions of AdGuard**
>
> The concept of priority has been introduced in `tsurlfilter v2.1.0` and `CoreLibs v2.12`.
> Before that AdGuard didn't have any special priority computation algorithm and collisions
> handling could be different depending on AdGuard product and version.
```

Reviewer 8: `1.13`

Author: добавил

The base priority weight of any rule is 1. If the calculated priority is a floating-point number, it will be **rounded up** to the smallest integer greater than or equal to the calculated weight.

> **Compatibility with different versions of AdGuard**
>
> The calculation of numerical priorities for rules is effective in `tsurlfilter` since `v2.1.0`.

#### 1. Basic modifiers, the presence of each adds 1 to the priority: {#priority-category-1}

[//]: # (Please keep them sorted)

 * [`$app`](#app-modifier) with forbidden applications using `~`,
 * [`$denyallow`](#denyallow-modifier),
 * [`$dnsrewrite`](#dnsrewrite-modifier),
 * [`$domain`](#domain-modifier) with forbidden domains using `~`,

>  * `$first-party`,

Reviewer 4: `$first-party` is mentioned here but there is no explanation what does it mean

Reviewer: Let's just write than aliases are not covered in this list.

Author: @slavaleleka @ameshkov right now we have no information about aliases in our KB. we can add them to a separate task.

Reviewer: Right, but you can already remove `$first-party` from the list and mention that aliases are not covered by the doc.

 * [`$header`](#header-modifier),
 * [`$match-case`](#match-case-modifier),

>  * [`$method`](#method-modifier) with forbidden methods using `~`,

Reviewer 4: the term which is used for the `~` sign in the article is "negated", not "forbidden"

Author: @slavaleleka changed

 * [`$third-party`](#third-party-modifier),
 * [`$to`](#to-modifier),
 * restricted [content-types](#content-type-modifiers) with `~`.

> For forbidden domain, app or content-type, we add 1 for the presence of the modifier itself disregarding the number of forbidden domains or content-types, because the scope of the rule is infinitely large anyway. In other words, by banning several domains and content-types, we only *insignificantly* narrowed the scope of the rule.

Reviewer: method and header as well

Reviewer: When writing documentation avoid talking in first person.

`we narrowed the scope of the rule` --> `the scope of the rule is narrowed`

Author: @ameshkov we can't use negative values in `$header`, can we?

Author: rewritten this block with chatgpt

#### 2. Defined content-type modifiers, defined methods, $popup, special exceptions: {#priority-category-2}

All allowed content types:
[//]: # (Please keep them sorted)

* [`$document`](#document-modifier),
* [`$font`](#font-modifier),
* [`$image`](#image-modifier),
* [`$media`](#media-modifier),
* [`$object`](#object-modifier),
* [`$other`](#other-modifier),
* [`$ping`](#ping-modifier),
* [`$script`](#script-modifier),
* [`$stylesheet`](#stylesheet-modifier),
* [`$subdocument`](#subdocument-modifier),
* [`$websocket`](#websocket-modifier),
* [`$xmlhttprequest`](#xmlhttprequest-modifier);

This also includes rules that implicitly add the modifier `$document`:
* [`$popup`](#popup-modifier);

or special exceptions that implicitly add `$document,subdocument`:
* [`$content`](#content-modifier),
* [`$elemhide`](#elemhide-modifier),
* [`$extension`](#extension-modifier),
* [`$genericblock`](#genericblock-modifier),
* [`$generichide`](#generichide-modifier),
* [`$jsinject`](#jsinject-modifier),
* [`$specifichide`](#specifichide-modifier),
* [`$urlblock`](#urlblock-modifier)';

> Or allowed methods via [`$method`](#method-modifier).

Reviewer 4: why `$method` is in group 2 while `$header` is in group 1?
both are basic modifiers and looks like used for the same purpose — specify the request for rule applying

Reviewer: Legit question, let's move `$header` here as well.

Author: @slavaleleka @ameshkov moved with constant weight `50`

Priority is measured as a positive integer.
In the case of a conflict between two rules with the same priority value, it is not specified which one of them will be chosen.

#### Priority computation

To calculate priority, we've categorized modifiers into different groups. These groups are ranked based on their priority, from lowest to highest. A modifier that significantly narrows the scope of a rule adds more weight to its total priority. Conversely, if a rule applies to a broader range of requests, its priority decreases.

It's worth noting that there are cases where a single-parameter modifier has a higher priority than multi-parameter ones. For instance, in the case of `$domain=example.com|example.org`, a rule that includes two domains has a slightly broader effective area than a rule with one specified domain, therefore its priority is lower.

The base priority weight of any rule is 1. If the calculated priority is a floating-point number, it will be **rounded up** to the smallest integer greater than or equal to the calculated weight.

> **Compatibility with different versions of AdGuard**
>

> > The concept of priority has been introduced in `tsurlfilter v2.1.0` and `CoreLibs v2.13`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> The concept of priority has been introduced in `tsurlfilter v2.1.0` and `CoreLibs v1.13`.
```

Author: yeah, thanks!

If there is a `$method` modifier in the rule with allowed methods it adds `(50 + 50 / N)`, where `N` is the number of methods allowed, for example:
`||example.com^$method=GET|POST|PUT` will add `50 + 50 / 3 = 50 + 16.6 = 67` to the total weight of the rule.

#### 3. $domain or $app with allowed domains or applications: {#priority-category-3}

Specified domains through `$domain` or specified applications through `$app` add `100 + 100 / N`, where `N` is the number of modifier values for example:
`||example.com^$domain=example.com|example.org|example.net` will add `100 + 100 / 3 = 134.3 = 135` or
`||example.com^$app=org.example.app1|org.example.app2` will add `100 + 100 / 2 = 151` or
`||example.com^$domain=example.com,app=org.example.app1|org.example.app2` will add `100 + 100/1` ($domain part) and `100 + 100/2` ($app part) - will add `350` in total.

Modifier values that are regexps or tld will be interpreted as normal entries of the form `example.com` and counted one by one, for example:
`||example.com^$domain=example.*` will add `100 + 100 / 1 = 200` or
`||example.com^$domain=example.*|adguard.*` will add `100 + 100 / 2 = 150`.

> #### 4. $redirect rules {#priority-category-6}

Reviewer 8: Whilte implementing the new spec, I discovered that in CoreLibs we support a syntax (which is seemingly never mentioned in this knowledge base) for specifying a priority for redirect rules, e.g.: `$redirect=noopjs:42` is higher priority than `$redirect=noopjs:-3`. It is currently used only when comparing redirect rules to each other, and before comparing the "common properties" of the redirect rules. Are we keeping this feature? If so, how should this redirect-rule specific priority be integrated into the new priority framework?

Author: @ngorskikh Yes, we discussed them in a conversation with you two weeks ago. As far as I remember, they will only be added for compatibility with uBlock syntax. As for the extension - we don't support those specified weights and, as far as I know, we don't intend to.
As for CoreLibs - it might be more correct to compare $redirect rules according to our weights priorities first and only after that, if there are two rules with the same weight - CoreLibs can use these extra weights as part of "[specific implementation logic](https://github.com/AdguardTeam/KnowledgeBase/pull/196/files/0cd37507c8ef08d53bcc868141c2c2e7a4e1971f#diff-190ba525f7c4d0b0eda33dab9df98df01d3ac072d6aeef951f044c96d58a25c9R1746)".

Reviewer 7: Actually, it is [mentioned](https://github.com/AdguardTeam/KnowledgeBase/blob/master/docs/general/ad-filtering/create-own-filters.md?plain=1#L1374)

Reviewer 7: Actually, it was mentioned in the [old KB](https://github.com/AdguardTeam/AdguardKnowledgeBase/blob/master/01.general/02.how-to-create-your-own-ad-filters/docs.en.md?plain=1#L1026) but not here 🥲

Reviewer: We discussed this and came to a conclusion that this is a really rarely required thing and the only reason for it is that uBO does not have the concept of rule priority.

So we decided to not support it in tsurlfilter and simply "strip" the priority part when doing the conversion.
Please do the same in CoreLibs.

@105th I think we should mention it in the documentation:

> `$redirect in uBlock Origin supports specifying priority, e.g. `$redirect=noopjs:42`. AdGuard does not support it and instead just discards the priority postfix.`

#### 4. Specific exceptions: {#priority-category-4}

[//]: # (Please keep them sorted)

* [`$content`](#content-modifier),
* [`$elemhide`](#elemhide-modifier),
* [`$extension`](#extension-modifier),
* [`$jsinject`](#jsinject-modifier),
* [`$specifichide`](#specifichide-modifier),
* [`$urlblock`](#urlblock-modifier),
* [`$genericblock`](#genericblock-modifier),
* [`$generichide`](#generichide-modifier);

Each of which adds `10^3` to the priority.

As well as exception with [`$document modifier`](#document-modifier): because it's an alias for `$elemhide,content,jsinject,urlblock,extension`.
It will add `10^3` for each modifier from [the top list](#priority-category-4), `10^3 * 5` in total.

In addition, each of these exceptions implicitly adds the two allowed content-type modifiers `$document,subdocument`.

#### 5. Allowlist rule {#priority-category-5}

Modifier `@@` adds `10^4` to rule priority.

#### 6. $redirect rules {#priority-category-6}

[//]: # (Please keep them sorted)

* [`$redirect`](#redirect-modifier),
* [`$redirect-rule`](#redirect-rule-modifier).

Each of which adds `10^5` to rule priority.

> #### 7. important rules {#priority-category-7}

Reviewer 8: We currently have tests such as these:
```
        { // document > important
                .rules = { "@@||test1", "@@||test2$important", "@@||test3$document" },
                .expected_rule = "@@||test3$document",
        },
```
```
        { // exceptional document > important blocking document
                .rules = { "@@||test1$document", "||test2$document,important" },
                .expected_rule = "@@||test1$document",
        },
```
So, document exceptions seem to have special priority boost that is not reflected in this spec. Is this an intended change, or is the spec incorrect?

Author: @ngorskikh according to the documentation `$important` has a higher priority than any exceptions

#### 2. Defined content-type modifiers, defined methods, $popup, special exceptions: {#priority-category-2}

All allowed content types:
[//]: # (Please keep them sorted)

* [`$document`](#document-modifier),
* [`$font`](#font-modifier),
* [`$image`](#image-modifier),
* [`$media`](#media-modifier),
* [`$object`](#object-modifier),
* [`$other`](#other-modifier),
* [`$ping`](#ping-modifier),
* [`$script`](#script-modifier),
* [`$stylesheet`](#stylesheet-modifier),
* [`$subdocument`](#subdocument-modifier),
* [`$websocket`](#websocket-modifier),
* [`$xmlhttprequest`](#xmlhttprequest-modifier);

This also includes rules that implicitly add the modifier `$document`:
* [`$popup`](#popup-modifier);

or special exceptions that implicitly add `$document,subdocument`:
* [`$content`](#content-modifier),
* [`$elemhide`](#elemhide-modifier),
* [`$extension`](#extension-modifier),
* [`$jsinject`](#jsinject-modifier),
* [`$specifichide`](#specifichide-modifier),
* [`$urlblock`](#urlblock-modifier),
* [`$genericblock`](#genericblock-modifier),

> * [`$generichide`](#generichide-modifier);

Reviewer 7: `generichide` and `genericblock` are also present in `Specific exceptions`

Author: @sxgunchenko you mean i need delete sub-item "[Generic rules](#exception-modifiers-generic-rules)" ?

Reviewer 7: Maybe, I didn't get it right. Here's said that those modifiers just imply the `document` content type for a rule, right?

* [`$redirect`](#redirect-modifier),
* [`$redirect-rule`](#redirect-rule-modifier).

Each of which adds `10^5` to rule priority.

#### 7. important rules {#priority-category-7}

Modifier [`$important`](#important-modifier) adds `10^6` to rule priority.

#### Rules for which there is no priority count {#priority-category-extra}

[Other modifiers](#advanced-capabilities), which do not override a lock but perform additional post- or pre-processing of requests, have no priority.

> **Note**
>
> The [`$replace`](#replace-modifier) modifier takes precedence over all blocking rules of categories 1-3, as well as rules of exceptions from categories 3-5, **except** [`$content`](#content-modifier), because an exception with the `$content` modifier overrides all `$replace` rules.

#### Explanation for complicated cases:

1. Simultaneous blocking and `$removeparam`.
For example `*&p1=param` and `*$removeparam=p1`.
The blocking rule will be applied first, because otherwise, after removing the parameter, the request will not be blocked.

2. `$header` and `$removeheader`.
Two rules:
`||example.com^$header=header-name` - blocking.
`||example.com^$removeheader=header-name` - remove header.

> The blocking rule will be applied first, because `$header` will add 1 to the priority calculation.

Reviewer 7: Have you decided to leave it here? The `removeparam` case explanation is now duplicated in the modifier's section, but the `header` case is not. 🤔

Author: yes, because if I duplicate it, I have to duplicate it twice, and we will have three identical partitions: here and in `$header` and `$remove-header`

Reviewer 7: I'm still not sure it's a good place to leave it here. Those cases have nothing common with the priority. Maybe, it would be better to extract them into a separate chapter?

Author: @sxgunchenko can you provide sample how you see it? under "> note" section or how?

Reviewer 7: I see at least 2 options:

1) Introduce a chapter after https://github.com/AdguardTeam/KnowledgeBase/blob/master/docs/general/ad-filtering/create-own-filters.md?plain=1#LL796C1-L796C26, like:
```
### Tricky cases
1. Simultaneous blocking and `$removeparam`...
2. `$header` and `$removeheader`...
```

2) Add notes to `$header` and `$remove-header` section, just like you've done with `$removeparam`.

I would prefer the second one because the first one still requires links in the correspondent modifier section to the chapter. In the second variant it's not necessary to duplicate the case description, one of them could contain the full description and another - just a link.

Author: @sxgunchenko done, thank you

Reviewer 7: it's still here 🤔

Author: deleted at all

`1 + 10000 + 0 + (50 + 50 / 1) = 10101`.

##### Example 6.

`@@||example.com/ad/*$domain=example.org|example.net,important`

Rule weight: base weight + allowlist rule, [category 5](#priority-category-5) + important rule, [category 7](#priority-category-7) + allowed domains, [category 3](#priority-category-3):
`1 + 10000 + 1000000 + (100 + 100 / 2) = 1010152`.

##### Example 7.

`@@||example.org^$document` - without additional modifiers is an alias for
`@@|||example.com^$elemhide,content,jsinject,urlblock,extension`

Rule weight: base weight + specific exceptions, [category 4](#priority-category-4) + two allowed content types (document and subdocument), [category 2](#priority-category-2):
`1 + 1000 * 4 + (50 + 50 / 2) = 4076`.

##### Example 8.

`*$script,domain=a.com,denyallow=x.com|y.com`

Rule weight: base weight + allowed content type, [category 2](#priority-category-2) + allowed domain, [category 3](#priority-category-3) + denyallow, [category 1](#priority-category-1):
`1 + (50 + 50/1) + (100 + 100 / 1) + 1 = 303`.

##### Example 9.

> `||example.com^$all` (alias to `@@|||example.com^$document,subdocument,image,script,media,etc. + $popup`)

Author: yeah, thanks

### Rule priorities {#rule-priorities}

Each rule has its own priority, which is necessary when several rules match the request and the filtering system needs to select one of them.

> Priority is measured by a positive integer.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Priority is measured as a positive integer.
```

> In the case of a conflict between two rules with the same priority value, it is unspecified which one of them will be chosen.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In the case of a conflict between two rules with the same priority value, it is not specified which one of them will be chosen.
```

>
> Rules with `$mp4` modifier are not supported by AdGuard Content Blocker, AdGuard for iOS and Safari.

### Rule priorities {#rule-priorities}

Each rule has its own priority, which is necessary when several rules match the request and the filtering system needs to select one of them.

> Priority is measured by a positive integer. The higher the priority of a rule, the higher its priority value.

Reviewer 8: "Чем выше приоритет, тем выше приоритет" 🙃 Можно написать `larger numbers represent higher priority` или как-то так

Reviewer 6: реально филосораптор

Author: удалено

Reviewer: It's frequently necessary to address collisions. In other words, we need to handle situations where multiple rules match the same request, and the filtering engine has to decide which rule to use. In order to handle these situations, AdGuard assigns each rule a priority value, represented as a positive integer. If two rules have differing priority values, the rule with the greater value will be chosen. However, if both rules share the same priority value, the outcome depends on the engine's index structures implementation. This cannot be outlined in the documentation and should be considered unpredictable.

> In the case of a conflict between two rules with the same priority value, there is undefined behavior, depending on the implementation.

Reviewer 8: Так все же `undefined` или `depending on implementation`? :)

Reviewer 6: от какой имплементации?

Author: одно другому не мешает же

Reviewer 8: Не, ну это разные вещи) `Undefined` значит, что поведение в данном случае совсем не определено, и не может быть определено, поэтому такой ситуации лучше избегать, а `implementation defined` значит, что поведение определено, просто не здесь, а в каком-то другом документе)

Author: здесь же нету `implementation defined`, здесь только `depending on the implementation`? т.е. зависит от того, как реализовано в движке

Author: @el-termikael @ngorskikh предложите свой вариант пожалуйста

Reviewer 8: Я не знаю, что задумывали авторы спеки :( Могу предположить, что хотели чтобы поведение было в общем случае неопределенным, но в отдельных случаях приложения могли его определить. Я не знаю, как это грамотно написать по английски :harold: @el-termikael halp

Reviewer 7: может просто undefined -> unspecified? :)
```suggestion
In the case of a conflict between two rules with the same priority value, it is unspecified which one of them will be chosen.
```

> #### Priority counting

Reviewer 8: Скорее `computation` :grammar:

Author: fixed

> To calculate priority, modifiers have been divided into several groups. They are arranged in order of priority from lowest to highest. The more a modifier narrows the scope of a rule, the more priority it adds to the total weight of the rule or the more a rule covers requests, the lower its priority. Note that there are modifiers where setting one parameter has a higher priority than setting two or more, for example, for `$domain=example.com|example.org`, because a rule with two domains has a smaller, infinitesimal, effective area, but still larger than a rule with one resolved domain.

Reviewer 8: >or the more a rule covers requests, the lower its priority
Не уверен, что тут конкретно не так с грамматикой, но я понял, что тут написано только потому что я знаю русский :harold: Пусть контентаны набигут :)

Reviewer: @ngorskikh так понятнее?

```
To calculate priority, we've categorized modifiers into different groups. These groups are ranked based on their priority, from lowest to highest. A modifier that significantly narrows the scope of a rule adds more weight to its total priority. Conversely, if a rule applies to a broader range of requests, its priority decreases. It's worth noting that there are cases where a single-parameter modifier has a higher priority than multi-parameter ones. For instance, in the case of $domain=example.com|example.org, a rule that includes two domains has a slightly broader effective area. However, it's still narrower than a rule with one specified domain.
```

Reviewer: Да, реально косяк :)

Reviewer: Обновил:

To calculate priority, we've categorized modifiers into different groups. These groups are ranked based on their priority, from lowest to highest. A modifier that significantly narrows the scope of a rule adds more weight to its total priority. Conversely, if a rule applies to a broader range of requests, its priority decreases.

It's worth noting that there are cases where a single-parameter modifier has a higher priority than multi-parameter ones. For instance, in the case of `$domain=example.com|example.org`, a rule that includes two domains has a slightly broader effective area than a rule with one specified domain, therefore its priority is lower.

Author: поменял

> The base priority weight of any rule is 1. If the priority is a floating point number, it will be **rounded up** to the smaller integer greater than or equal to the calculated weight.

Reviewer 8: `smallest`

Reviewer 8: >If the priority is a floating point number

Previously the spec stated that the priority is a positive integer, so it looks like this sentence describes an impossible situation. It is probably better to explicitly state that priority is calculated as a real number and then rounded.

Author: reworded

> **Compatibility with different versions of AdGuard**
>

> > Numerical priorities for rules are available in `tsurlfilter` since version `v2.1.0`.

Reviewer 8: Does this mean that calculating priorities according to this spec is an optional feature that should be enabled, and the old behaviour should be kept?

Author: fixed

* [`$content`](#content-modifier),
* [`$elemhide`](#elemhide-modifier),
* [`$extension`](#extension-modifier),
* [`$genericblock`](#genericblock-modifier),
* [`$generichide`](#generichide-modifier),
* [`$jsinject`](#jsinject-modifier),
* [`$specifichide`](#specifichide-modifier),
* [`$urlblock`](#urlblock-modifier);

Each of which adds `10^4` to the priority.

As well as exception with [`$document modifier`](#document-modifier): because it's an alias for `$elemhide,content,jsinject,urlblock,extension`.
It will add `10^4` for each modifier from [the top list](#priority-category-4), `10^4 * 5` in total.

In addition, each of these exceptions implicitly adds the two allowed content-type modifiers `$document,subdocument`.

#### 6. Allowlist rule {#priority-category-5}

Modifier `@@` adds `10^5` to rule priority.

#### 7. important rules {#priority-category-7}

Modifier [`$important`](#important-modifier) adds `10^6` to rule priority.

#### Rules for which there is no priority count {#priority-category-extra}

[Other modifiers](#advanced-capabilities), which do not override a blocking but perform additional post- or pre-processing of requests, have no priority.

> **Note**
>

> > The [`$replace`](#replace-modifier) modifier takes precedence over all blocking rules of categories 1-3, as well as rules of exceptions from categories 3-5, **except** [`$content`](#content-modifier), because an exception with the `$content` modifier overrides all `$replace` rules.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
> The [`$replace`](#replace-modifier) modifier takes precedence over all blocking rules of categories 1-3, as well as exception rules from categories 3-5, **except** [`$content`](#content-modifier), because an exception with the `$content` modifier overrides all `$replace` rules.
```
